Was it
hard? Yes. Um, but today I don't know.
Maybe I will break technique. Who knows?
Maybe I can't get
five before I before I do my set. Um,
what was I looking for? What was I
looking for? Oh,
[Music]
there.
Okay. Where do where do we start, bro?
Uh, equipment, drinks, private. Well, I
got to go make my drinks and I want to
put on my stuff before I Let me just put
all the [__] on.
Belts, wrist wraps, bands, knee
sleeves, banned knee sleeves. How's
that? So, a lot of people say those
things like, "Oh, you can't use those.
You're banned." It's like, banned for
what? Banned for my gym. It's not banned
for my gym. I'm allowed to use this in
my gym. Check out how you do it. Right.
So, I fold it in half. Right. They're
very stiff, so it's hard to to I don't
want to unfold it. Right. So, I fold it
in half and I put it
here. Easy. And then I get the top half
and we're
on. All right. But that's not what I do
from now. I'm going to start here and do
all my warm-ups without it. And then
when I get to heavier
weight, that's
when I'll put them on properly. squat
shoes. So, I'm doing um quad dominant
squats, which is going to be high heel
elevated,
right? And people might be thinking,
well, then shouldn't you use
weightlifting shoes, which have the heel
inbuilt? Yeah, they do. And I'll show
you them in a moment, but I want to use
an extra high heel elevation. I'm going
to be standing on a red bumper plate,
which is a very thick bumper plate. So,
it's a really high heel elevation. This
is what I recommend. And the footwear
that I recommend is softer sole shoe. So
this if it's a weightlifting shoe, it's
a really hard surface and it doesn't
contour to the edge of the plate. So the
reason why you use weightlifting shoes
is a stable base of support. You want it
to be as hard as possible. Now, this is
the trade-off with this heel elevation
is, yeah, it's a reduction in stability
because you're up on the balls of the
feet, but it's a different focus now. So
it's a trade-off. It's slightly less
stable, but it's really emphasizing
quads. So, it's only a small loss of
stability, but to make it more stable,
that's why I use this shoe, which is a
softer sole, so it contours to the edge.
Do you know what I'm saying? If I use
the weightlifting shoe, um, yeah, it's
even harder to balance. Can you use like
a running shoe? You can use a running
shoe, but that's a little bit too thick,
you know? So, I'll use my regular
sneaker. You can I'd probably prefer you
use a regular sneaker than a
weightlifting shoe because this it'll
just squash in and you'll just sit it on
the edge. Right. That's better than a a
weightlifting shoe. I'll show you
weightlifting
shoe. So, this is these are my favorite
weightlifting shoes, the Adidas. Uh you
know, Nike ones. There's lots of
different brands. I just like the look
of these. They're clean. But that on the
edge, it's kind of like, see how it
rocks around? Whereas this, it kind of
grips, right? So that's why I like a bit
of little bit of cushion. Not too much.
That's why I like my boxing shoes. Not
sponsored by anyone, of course, even
though I've got lots of
Adidas. Good one. Good one, Adidas.
Let's get the pre-workout. I'll get a
fresh bottle. So, this is very hard to
put pour salt in this
bottle. So, I'll show you how I do it.
We got a kitchen here. Yeah, we got a
kitchen. Pretty cool, huh? You know,
it's pretty hard to put it in here. So,
this is me every day, right? I get my
glass. Did I get this glass out? Did I
just get this glass out? Or was that one
that was sitting there? I got too much
on my mind. Don't want to use someone's
secondhand glass.
40 50 So, and this is about half a
teaspoon of salt. So I normally have one
teaspoon, you know, it's probably not
even that's 80 turns, right? So it's
about half a teaspoon. I say one
teaspoon per liter. You could do more.
It's like, you know, if you went to the
doctor, if you're dehydrated and you got
put on one of those IV drips, they put
you on a saline bag, which contains one
liter of water and 9 g of sodium. Like a
teaspoon of salt is half a is is 5 g of
salt which is probably about 4 g of
sodium. But if you have 9 g of sodium
from salt, it's not palatable. Like it
just tastes like ocean water, which is
gross, right? So when I put one teaspoon
in a liter, it's really not even that
much. So to get rehydrated, if you were
to go to the doctor, they'd give you
more sodium than this. Uh but either
way, this tastes okay. More salt than
this doesn't taste amazing. And this is
my pre-post perry. This is my hydration
pre-post perry uh workout formula with
my coffee which I've already drank. You
use like creatine protein? Yeah, I use
creatine but that's not pre-workout. So
my supplement stack is creatine. I do
one heap teaspoon a day. So that's
probably about 7 g. They say 5 g, but
you know I'm 100 kg body weight or 220
lb for the Americans. 5 g is not a lot.
It's like the basic recommendation for
me or it's the basic recommendation for
a 50 kilo person. So how does that work
out? Do you know what I mean? So why is
it that someone half my size is also
recommended 5 g. That doesn't make
sense, right? So therefore the
recommendation is if you are a little
bit bigger, you take a little bit more.
So for me it's about I don't know eight
grams of creatine. So that's my everyday
supplement stack. Creatine protein
powder. I don't consider that a
supplement. I just consider that to be
food. And I have protein powder every
day um because it's very easy to
consume. I use that for breakfast every
morning with my oatmeal. Have 30 grams
of pro of whey protein isolate in my
oatmeal, my porridge and I get out of
the house. It's like real quick and easy
way to start my day. And that's pretty
much it when it comes to supplements.
Pretty much it. And then the rest is
food. I've had two meals today. So, I've
had my protein powder with my uh oatmeal
and then I've had and then I went to the
cafe and had scrambled eggs and toast.
Did you see that? See how I set this up?
This is because I have to have my hands.
So, this is called racks in. Right? So,
when you have the racks in, you can put
your hands on the outside of the rack.
Right? If you had a normal power rack,
say look how tight my shoulders are. Oh,
this takes a little bit of time to get
warm. I literally can't. So the rule
that I give with squats is hold the bar
as close as your shoulder mobility
allows. Right? And then people say, why
are you holding it wide? Because I don't
have very mobile shoulders and that's as
close as my shoulder mobility allows.
Right? So so that's in paling
competition. You got racks in and then
you got racks out. So the racks out kind
of go about here, right? So if you squat
in a commercial gym and you're squatting
out of a power rack, you've got no
choice. So people with tight shoulders,
they often say to me, "I can't squat
because I don't have the shoulder
mobility." Well, if you had a rack like
this and you're able to put the racks
in, you would be able to position
yourself in a way racks in and put the
hands on the outside. And it's a game
changer. So therefore, if you don't have
access to something like this, then it's
pretty tough. Find a gym that has racks
that you can adjust. Now, check this
out. So, I mentioned it last time. A lot
of people complain about the rack that I
use, and I said, "I love this. This is a
weightlifters's rack. It's light. you
know, it's easy for me to to get rid of.
So, I'll be doing deadlifts after this
and I'll just take this away. The
alternatives, uh, this is the
powerlifting IPF spec rack. That's what
you see in world powerlifting
competitions. Um, it's very heavy. It's
harder to move around. Um, it works, but
have a look at this. So, this is how I
put the racks in
here, right? See, the difference is the
base remains the same and the angle of
the uprightes is kind of here. And when
I grab the bar on the outside, this is
too wide. It digs into my arms. Whereas
over here, I can bring it even closer
and I can grab the bar and it this
doesn't get into the way of my arms. So
that's why I like this rack better. All
right, next up. What are we doing today?
This is my secondary squat day. Day one
squats was 3 days ago. That's where I
did very heavy. You saw me squat 285 kg.
When I go on my main training, um, you
know, my squat specialization style of
training, I like to squat two times per
week. uh and I deadlift as an accessory,
right? So, a lot of the times when you
try and squat heavy and deadlift heavy
in the same week, you're loading the
same structures and it's really
fatiguing, especially when you get to a
high level. And heavy squats, you know,
spine loading exercises interfere with
the recovery that's needed for heavy
deadlifts and vice versa. So, there's a
few methods for this. Um, one is to go
heavy squats and light deadlifts during
the week and then the next week you flip
it. Heavy deadlifts and light squats. I
learned that from my mentors, Eric and
Ernie Liybridge. Another alternative is
to just squat two times per week. So,
this is what I actually prefer. Squat
two times per week and then use
deadlifts just as an accessory exercise.
So, I'll be doing stiff-legged deadlifts
after this. So, what that does is it
allows you to use a deadlift variation
to continue training those muscles.
Remember, a squat trains the same
muscles as the deadlifts minus holding a
weight in your hands, right? So, if all
you do is squat, your deadlift will go
up to a certain degree. Of course, you
always have to practice kind of like
holding on to barbells. If you don't
deadlift for a long period of time, and
you come back to deadlift, a heavy
weight, you lack a lot of strength to
hold onto the bar. Your hip extensors
and your core and your legs are really
strong, strong enough to do a heavy
deadlift, but you're just not strong
enough in your, you know, upper body to
hold onto the bar. So, that's my perfect
blend is to do squats twice a week and
then do an accessory deadlift variation,
which is what you're going to see today.
No, I don't do abs. I don't do core.
This is my core, right? So this is kind
of like one of those things where um you
know a large percentage of the lifting
population believe that squats and
deadlifts are enough for core
development. Um and then you've got the
other half that say no it's not. Now I'm
going to talk a little bit about that in
a moment. Back to my favorite warm up to
take the knees through the full range of
motion is an empty leg press. This time
really empty. This time actually empty.
And I'll do about 50 reps just to make
my knees feel happy with me. Lots and
lots of reps. Poor cameraman. What am I
not? Am I zero kilg? Yeah, I saw that
comment. He's not zero kg, but you know
what I mean. This is quads. See that
hamstring press against the calf. That's
quads. When you do a normal leg
press, look at the knee bend. The
hamstring is not pressing against the
calf. So you get less range of motion in
knee joint extension. So you're not
taking the quadriceps to the same range
of motion, but it's still a very good
exercise. This is more kind of like hip
extensor. Great exercise, just slightly
different. But that's the two ways that
I do my leg press. This is hip
dominant stronger. Hip dominant is
stronger. Pushing through the whole
foot. You know, that's how I'm going to
do my low bar squats like
this. But then you want to build quads.
My favorite
way. See the difference in range of
motion at the knee
joint. Keep adding a few plates up until
I get to, you know, three plates each
side and then I'm going to start doing
high bar squats. This is my warmup every
time I'm even when I do a deadlift day.
Um, so of course I told you my whole
rule with deadlifts and that's not
today. But either way, if I was to do a
deadlift e, I I do the same warm up,
right? Leg press. I love it. Like,
there's lots of ways of warming up, but
this way it's easy. I get to lay down,
chill out, and just not really think
about it, but I know that I'm doing the
right
thing. Not much rest, you know, however
long it takes to put the plate on. You
know, I get up and just leisurely do
that for all of my warm-up sets. I don't
time the rest. You know, if you were to
time it, it'd be like 1 to two
minutes. So, instead of getting the
timer out, I just leisurely get up, put
a plate on, walk around, put another
plate on. Yeah, for this, you know, it's
about 20 reps. The first set, I don't
know how many I did, you know, about 50.
I didn't count, but then when we go uh
slightly
heavier, you know, about 20, right? Then
leisurely get up, put on another plate,
however long that takes. I don't even
know. Sometimes I'll have a sip of
coffee, but I don't have a coffee right
now cuz I already drank it too quickly.
Now that's the rule. Now that it's
heavier weight, I'll do less reps. Got
two plates. Now I'll do 10
reps. Did you see my post on my
Instagram? If you didn't, that means
you're not following me. Go and follow
Australian strength coach. Thank you. I
spoke about how you breathe for a squat.
How you're standing with a squat. It's
imagining you're standing in a pool with
the water neck high. You can't breathe
under the water. So you breathe
in and you breathe out once your head is
above water. So different rules with a
leg press. So the reason why you hold
your breath for a squat is that's part
of the brace. Not the only part, but
it's one of the many parts of bracing.
Your core is intraabdominal pressure.
It's a valva maneuver. filling your body
up with
air so that you can have a strong brace
to support your spine. Okay, those are
the key words to support your spine.
Now, do I need to support my spine in
the leg press? Look at what I'm laying
on. That's supporting my spine. This is
not a spine loading exercise. Therefore,
what I like to do is exhale on the way
down. So, I got a full belly of air now
and then
exhale. So, I've exhaled here. That's
going to allow me
to to get more degrees of hip flexion.
So to take it through an even longer
range of motion when I breathe
in, right? So my my ribs flare, but also
my tail arches slightly, right? So when
your tail arches, you lose a few degrees
of hip joint flexion. Okay? I don't want
to lose hip joint flexion. When I
exhale, my tail doesn't arch. I maintain
a neutral pelvis position which allows
more degrees of hip joint flexion which
allows a deeper range of motion for your
leg press. That's a hack. Try it next
time you leg press. Don't have a full
belly of air here. Breathe out when
you're at the bottom if you want a
little bit more range of
motion. I know,
right? I don't get time to breathe.
That's okay, bro. That's okay because we
got to give value instead of watching me
breathe. You can just listen to me
giving you tips. They're usually but not
here. Do you know what I mean? You just
have to watch and go, "Huh, I wonder how
long that guy took to learn all that
stuff. Only 20 years or whatever it is,
but I get to learn it all now and I
don't have to pay. On last set. Breathe
[Applause]
out. Breathe in. Breathe out. Breathe
in. Breathe out. Breathe in. Breathe
out. Breathe in. Breathe
out. Breathe in. And my knees are warm.
Now I'm going to do my first sets under
the squat bar. So what are we doing?
What are we doing, you may ask? This is
my accessory day. My favorite
accessory to complement my low bar
squat. So low bar squat is, you know,
hip dominant, right? It's a lot of hip
extensors, but it doesn't train much
quads. So, if all you do is low bar
squats and really maximize your hips,
you're not building much
quadriceps. Maybe some people don't know
whe
Oh, yeah. So, low bar
squat, I'm placing the barbell on my
rear delts. So, that's a low bar squat.
And when I do the movement, it's hip
dominant. That's my low bar squat. All
right. So, my knees bend, you know, to
maybe like, you know, 90°, but I'm
getting most of the range of motion
through my hip joint. Whereas the high
bar squat, the way I'm going to do it
now is placing the bar on my upper
trapezius. So, it's about 2 in higher.
This isn't just a normal high bar squat.
This is a heel elevated high bar squat.
You could call it a stiletto squat or a
cyclist squat. Okay? And I pause at the
bottom to really accentuate that
position. spend time at the bottom to
give you confidence at the bottom.
That's the hardest part of the movement.
And what I'm doing is really like taking
momentum out of it and really increasing
the demand on the strength of my
quadriceps. So, which one's better or
worse? High bar squat is better for
weightlifterss. If it was
performance-based, weightlifters need to
be upright when they catch a heavy
snatch or a clean and jerk, right? So,
low bar squat forces you to tip forward
more. But low bar squat, because you're
tipping forward more, it allows you to
use your back and your hips, which
allows you to lift a heavier weight. So,
in powerlifting competition, that's what
you're going to see most of is a low bar
squat because the goal isn't to be
upright in a powerlifting competition.
The goal is to get the crease of your
hips below the top of your knees. Okay,
let's uh do a few warm-up sets on this.
We'll have a drink first.
Salty water. What weight are we doing
today?
What weight are we doing
today? 180 kg for two sets of five
repetitions. All right. So, I'm slowly
slowly building my strength in that
position. This is week three for me for
that. Five reps on 180 kg is a lot less
than what I'd be able to do low bar. You
know, I think with a low bar squat, I'd
probably be able to do five reps on 250
kg at the
moment with no wraps, like with sleeves.
About 250 kg. So, look at the
difference. That's a 70 kg difference.
Well, you know, five on 180. It's a very
different position. The goal isn't to
shift the heaviest loads. The goal is to
build quads, right? And strengthen the
muscles that I'm neglecting with my main
movement. With powerliffters, they do
heaps of work on hip extensors. So, I'll
be doing that as well with my
stiff-legged deadlifts today. So much
work with the hip extensors and the back
and all those things to need to go and
do way more accessories on those
muscles. No, you want to do accessories
and supplementary lifts on the muscles
that you're neglecting with those big
main movements. Powerlifters have really
strong posterior chains. So, if you look
at the leg development difference
between a powerlifter and a
weightlifter, weightlifters
proportionately have much bigger quads
than a powerlifter. And a powerlifter
has much bigger core and much stronger
back than a weightlifter. Don't get
upset if you're a weightlifter. I'm not
saying you don't have a strong back.
Weightlifterss have very strong backs
just like powerlters have very strong
legs. They do. I'm talking about
proportionately. There's more demand on
a the sport of powerlifting to have a
strong posterior chain than it is to
have strong quadriceps. Either way,
having strong quads does help. And this
is my favorite squat pattern to allow
you to build big quads. So, some people
say squats are bad for quads. I'll tell
you something about those people. They
just don't know how to position
themselves to build quadriceps in a
squat.
They're bad people. They're not bad.
They just don't know. They just don't
know. If you want to build quads, look
no further than the stiletto
squat. Okay. What's the goal with a
stiletto squat? Full knee bend. How do
you know it's full? I can't go lower
because my hamstring and calf are
pressing together at the bottom. Right.
The next thing you want to do is be
upright. So, don't lean forward. You
want to be upright. And that's why if
you have a look at the difference when I
get off
the right, I don't have the balance to
be as upright. So I have to use more
hips when I when I come off the heel
elevation. So this allows me to hit that
rock bottom position and really focus on
quads. Okay, let's add weight slowly.
Slowly I'm going to go 20 kg jumps. So,
I'm going to go this is 40, then I go
60, then 80, then 100, 120, 140, 160,
and then top set 180. So, I don't know
how many reps I just did on empty bar.
Um, I don't know. I just did two sets of
whatever it was I was talking. But then
as I go a little bit heavier, I don't
know, maybe I'll do six reps of this and
then when I go a little bit heavier,
I'll go four reps, two reps, then one,
one, one, one, one up until my top set
of 180.
Yeah. So, no, it's not a waste of
energy. You know, people say that's so
many warm-ups. It's a waste of energy.
No, I believe it's stimulating, right?
Check this out. I'm going to put these
on to make my knees just feel
comfortable. Winter is coming, right?
So, keep them warm. Same with the belt.
Check out this belt. It's on the lowest.
So, I've got a lot of levers. Check this
out. This is the Pioneer cut lever,
right? So, you got each increment is
kind of like very, you know, it's like a
centimeter apart, right? All right. So,
this is how I start my sessions on the
lowest tightness. So, it's it's pretty
loose. And then when I get to the top
weight, I'll be on the
tightest. You get it? So, why do I use a
I don't have to use a belt for this
weight. The way you brace with a belt is
slightly different to the way you brace
without a belt. This is my advice to a
lot of people is when I'm using
equipment for the day, I warm up with
the equipment that I'm going to be using
to train the technique that I'm going to
be using. But then I also do of course
unbted work because a lot of people say,
you know, you're going to weaken that
position because you're going to be
accustomed to using a belt for
everything. No, I do a lot of unbilted
work.
So that's not fatiguing. You know, I'll
do lots of sets. It's not fatiguing.
It's stimulating, right? So it's 40 kg.
Why would that be fatiguing? And then to
make it so it's not fatiguing, as I get
heavier and heavier, I do less and less
repetitions. So when it comes to
warm-ups, technically I'm warm. I just
did, I don't know, 100 100 reps on a leg
press. I'm warm. But it's not just about
being warm. It's about having my nervous
system ready to accept the weight that
I'm about to put on it, which is 180
kilograms. People think it's just about
a warmup. That's the reason I can't just
go for a run around the block for five
minutes and then come in and go straight
to my top set because it's not just
about being warm. It's about exciting
the nervous system to handle the heavy
loads and actually to be performing at a
high level. So, when people talk about
warm-ups, the best warm up is the one
that works for you. Some people prefer
to do quicker warm-ups. I don't. I think
it changes when you get older as well.
I'm
43. When I was 23, my
knees liked me a little bit more and
nothing hurt. But now, it's not that it
hurt. It doesn't hurt. It's just like
they just don't feel springy and bouncy
like they used
to. All righty.
[Music]
Okay. Whoop.
Next up, 100. I'll just do singles from
here. Let's talk about some of the
technical cues that I use to help me
lift more weight. You know, when I was
starting off with squats, it's just
about you put the barbell on your back
and you go down and push as hard as you
can. But there's a lot more to it than
that, such as bracing your upper body.
So, the techniques that I'm going to
teach you to brace your upper body is
going to make it. So, this is not the
limiting factor. So, a lot of the times
you see people, especially beginners,
when they're missing reps on their
squat, they're kind of like breaking
their core. It's like, oh, their back's
round. Their legs can push it up, but
their core can't hold it cuz they don't
know how to brace their core. I'm going
to teach you how to brace your core. And
your legs can be the limiting factor of
the movement, which is what you want
when you're thinking about muscle
building exercises or hypertrophy
exercises, right? So, what's a good
exercise to build quads? The target
muscle must be the limiting factor of
the movement. Or in other words, the
reason why you failed the set is because
the muscle that you're targeting can't
push any harder, right? So, like for
example, a front squat. What's the
limiting factor in a front squat? You're
probably going to see like like people
failing in the upper body, right? So,
upper back strength is typically the
limiting factor in most people's front
squats. That's why a lot of bodybuilders
nowadays are saying machines are better
than free weights because when you're in
a machine like a leg press, your body's
locked in. My upper body is not going to
be the limiting factor. It's the muscles
that I'm targeting like my legs ability
to push. That's what's going to make me
fail. And we're targeting the legs. So
that makes it a good hypertrophy
exercise. And that's why they say
therefore free weights are not as good.
Your core might be the limiting factor.
What if I told you I'm going to teach
you how to brace your core so it's not
the limiting factor. Right? So it starts
with the grip. Grab the bar as close as
your shoulder mobility allows. So we've
already discussed that my shoulders are
very tight, especially because I bench
pressed yesterday. So bench press does
can make your shoulders tight. I know
some great benches that don't have tight
shoulders, but I'm not one of those. So
this is me grabbing the barbell as close
as my shoulder mobility allows. Right?
So why do you want to hold it close?
Well, the closer we bring our arms, the
more our shoulder blades come together,
right? So bring our shoulder blades
together. So do it at home. Squeeze your
shoulder blades together as much as you
can and try and round your upper back
while that happens. It doesn't happen.
So I'm bending forward, but that's below
where my should shoulder blades are.
That's the part that it's bending,
right? It's on my upper back. So when
you're rounding your upper back, sorry,
when you're protracting your shoulders
or using a wide grip and you're not
using those middle back muscles, you can
break at the upper back, right? So how
do we avoid that? Start with hands as
close as shoulder mobility allows. But
it's not just that. I'm going to show
you the next thing. Right? So with a
close grip, imagine I have a close grip.
Of course, I don't, but imagine this is
you who does, right? So close grip. The
next thing is elbows back and down.
Right. So elbows
back is another cue to bring our
shoulder blades together. The muscles
that we use to bring our shoulder blades
together is the romboids and the middle
trapezius. Right? So elbows back is
midback. Then the next ceue is elbows
down. Right? So it's not one without the
other. Don't just go elbows down because
then we don't have the elbows back. And
don't just go elbows back because then
we don't have the elbows down. elbows
down is lat. The lats attached to the
top of the pelvis. Front of the arm
comes underneath and goes to the top of
the pelvis and it's the strongest muscle
to stabilize your lower back. So if
you're folding at the lower back, it's
because your lats aren't on. So that's
how you turn your lats on is elbows
down. Now here's the next thing you need
to think. There's many ways of saying
that. So elbows down, armpits towards
the pelvis or increase the distance
between your shoulders and your ears.
Right? So when you see people with the
elbows back too much and they're
shrugging their shoulders, your lats
aren't on. Your lats are responsible for
dropping your shoulder girdle. So
elevating your shoulder girdle is upper
trap. So you can't elevate and depress
at the same time. It's one or the other,
right? So so elbows back, shoulders
down, and and hands close to shoulder
mobility allows. That's the best cues
that you have to make sure that your
upper body is rigid and braced. And then
you combine that with the breath hold.
Okay, hands close. Upper trapezius,
right? Elbows back and down. Okay, so
that's really strong position for my
upper back. And I'm going to maintain
that position from start to finish. Big
breath to
brace. Exhale. I'll do one more rep. So
my brace, I take a big breath in through
my belly and I feel the belt like I push
my guts against that belt. Okay? See how
I'm moving the belt? Watch this.
No more moving of that belt,
right?
[Applause]
Okay. You know, a lot of weightlifting
circuits, like competent lifters, know
how to dump the bar if they need to.
Beginners, you might need to squat out
of a power rack where if you drop the
bar, kind of just gets caught by the
power rack. But when you go to
powerlifting gyms or or weightlifting
gyms, you don't see those power racks
usually. And I'll tell you why. It's
because these barbells cost a lot of
money. Like these, this is an elco bar
that you see in the Olympics. In
Australian dollars, it's kind of like
$2,000. So if I was to dump this with a
heavy weight on a power rack, the
barbell would bend. There goes $2,000.
So I know what you're thinking. It's
like, well, safety first. Yeah, that's
right. But a lot of competent
weightlifters know how to dump the bar
safely, drop it off their back,
and that's the risk you take.
[Applause]
These knee
sleeves, since I showed you them on
Monday, they got banned by the IPF,
didn't they? Um, so it's like, what are
my thoughts on that? Should I stop using
them? It's like, why? They're
comfortable for me. Um, do they add a
little bit more than the SPDs? Yeah,
they do a little bit, but I promise you
it'll only be a matter of time. Like if
I let's say I did want to compete, I'll
just take these off and I'll squat in my
SPDs and it'll take like few sessions to
customize myself again and then um I'll
be back to normal.
[Applause]
I realized you always set yourself up
under the bar the same way. I try and do
everything the same way every single
time. Here's the fact of it. When you go
to a competition and you want to hit
your top weight, how many practice runs
have you had on your top weight?
Probably not many. A lot of times you go
in competition to do a a PB, a personal
best, right? So sometimes you go in and
you've had zero attempts at that weight
in your life and you're going for it for
the first time. So therefore, how do you
get practice at
something that you've never done before?
You know what I mean? How do you get
practice? Well, every time you touch the
barbell, that's when you get practice,
right? You you go about it the exact
same way. You grab it the same way. You
unrackck it the same way. You take the
same steps out. You look in the same
position. You brace the same way. you
take the same tempo from the light
weight all the way to the top weight.
So, that's what I'm trying to do. And
that's one of my biggest tips with the
tempo is you practice the like what a
lot of people do is when they're on
their light weights, they kind of like
just pump through it, pump through it
cuz it's really easy. And then by the
time they get to a top weight, what do
you look like? You're shaky. You know,
you're uncomfortable because it's really
heavy and you haven't refined that
process. Okay. So, what's an alternative
to that? When you go to the light light
weights, you treat it like it's the
heavy weight and you control it as if as
if it is your heavy weight and then
you've had so much more practice at that
exact same technique that when you come
to the top set, you do nothing
different. Right now, that's the thing.
Here's a question that you may not
thought you had. What goes through your
head under a top weight? Right? So, a
lot of people ask me that question. Uh,
and when I think about it, the answer is
not much. Right? And if you ask any
highle lifter the same thing like what
went through your head the answer is
like I don't know like I don't know
right so that's how you want it to be
you don't want to start thinking about
cues at the top level you want maximal
arousal but also maximal focus you know
this is where if you practice the
movement so many times it just becomes
second nature and you don't have to
think about where do I place my knees
where do I place my back you just get
under and it's autopilot and you're just
automatically doing the same thing. Uh
now the tempo that I'm doing now is
different. I'm doing pause squats, so
it's a different tempo. The tempo that I
recommend for the heaviest weight
possible is is always this. Start slow,
gradually accelerate in and out of the
hole, right? So, some people say you
should lift fast or you should lift slow
or whatever it is. So, there's one
theory, fast down equals fast up. That's
the law of kinetic energy, right? So,
some people try and drop as fast as they
can, right? So, that's a weightlifting
approach, which really makes sense in
weightlifting because they have to throw
a weight over their head and drop as
fast as they can. So, that's good to
practice. But when it comes to heavy
heavy heavy loads, that's a really
difficult skill to learn. You know, if
you're going for max weight, you know,
some guys out there doing triple and
quadruple body weight squats. Imagine
three times your body weight on your
back and just dropping as fast as you
can because fast down equals fast up.
Not so easy, right? So, what is easier
is to brace, control it, and then when
you know that you're locked on, then we
we utilize that little bit of bounce,
stretch, reflex, kinetic energy,
whatever you want to call it. Right? So,
that's the optimal tempo, uh, which I'm
not going to be using now because I'm
doing pauses. So, last warm-up set, 160.
I'm not recording myself. I should Would
have been nice to see that. However, I'm
not lifting that heavy today. So, this
is like literally 105 kg lighter than
what I did on Monday. Different
technique. It's harder and all that
stuff, but it's not that heavy, right?
So, I kind of know it's moving well. I
can see it and it's not that hard. Yeah.
I still think Yeah. 180 kg next is going
to be hard. Like five reps, that's going
to be hard. 3 weeks ago I did three reps
of it and you know the fourth rep I was
kind of tipping forward. I was breaking
down technique a little bit. Um but
today I don't know maybe I will break
technique. Who knows? Maybe I can't get
five. I think I can but maybe I can't.
[Applause]
Not
bad. You know, technically it's
PB. You know, I haven't really pushed
this one heavy. um heavier than that
ever. Um you know, I know I can do that
weight, but I haven't done that weight
ever. So, I mean, I did it for triple.
So, now I did five reps. Was it
hard? Yes. But it's not like when I do a
low bar squat and it's like maximal
loads. That's really, really, really
hard. Um but anyway, uh good. I'm happy.
Five reps, 180 with good technique. I
feel like I held a really good body
position.
which is, you know, upright, maximum
knee bend, really good control. Look at
the
composure. So, even when like you'll see
the last rep was a bit of a
grind, but it's interesting because how
you feel is a lie. A lot of times like
it feels really hard, but then I come
back and I have a look at the
video and it's like, oh, that looked
better than what it
felt. Good one. Good
one. Yeah, that was pretty good. Uh,
yeah, I'm really happy with that. Really
happy with that. Thanks,
bro.
Thanks. Oh, thanks. You, too.
Got to be got to be congratulated by
somebody. Lifting is a lonely sport. You
know, lifting is a lonely sport. Anyway,
one more set. Uh how many minutes rest?
I'm going to give myself for this 6 to 8
minutes. So, I say 6 to 8 minutes so it
doesn't sound as embarrassing that it's
like maybe it's six, but no, it won't be
six. It'll be eight. When I do max
squats, like that was pretty close to
limit. That was like an RP 9. It takes
me a long time to recover. I could
probably do it in six, but I could also
do it in eight. And there's no rush. So,
I'm only doing two sets of eight. And
then after that, we're going to do some
stifflegged deadlifts. What do you mean
your rest? So, this is what you do in
your
rest. That's the only reason why you
have a phone in your rest periods for
heavy sessions. Not for texting, right?
Not not for going on Instagram, not for
doing silly things like that, right?
This is something, you know, it depends,
of course, what level you're at, right?
So when I'm training high level athletes
when they're coming close to
competition, it's like, okay, put your
phone down. Let's start thinking about
the session, right? Not what you're
doing on the weekend or what you did
last weekend or whatever it is. So
that's the only reason I say you should
be looking at your phone during the top
set. So what am I doing during the rest?
Um, nothing. Nothing. I'm relaxing,
right? I'll tell you another thing that
I'm not doing is psyching myself up
because that's fatiguing. That's what I
used to do um in my early days of
getting strong. It's like, oh, you know,
you got to be really switched on and
psyched up and we used to slap each
other's backs and all of those things.
Um, that's really fatiguing. So, maybe
it's good if you're going for, you know,
a comp lift or a really big uh PB in the
gym. Okay, fine. But if you do that over
and over and over again, damn, that's
fatiguing. I don't know the exact
hormones. Is it cortisol? Is it
adrenaline? I don't know. It's all that
stuff that gives you a really lot of
energy temporarily, but it also costs a
lot of energy, right? So that's why my
advice to people in between their top
sets, sit down, relax, drop your heart
rate, stay focused, but not psyched
up. Did you notice that my timer is not
on? Here's your Here's your hack for the
timer. You go to the set that you
recorded. And that was at 1:00 p.m. and
it's now 10:05. So I know I've got three
more minutes rest. See there? That's the
time that was recorded. And that's the
time
today. See that?
Set number two. Let's go.
All
right, good work. 2x5. The next question
that I know you're wondering, why only
two sets? Well, in my opinion, that
that's enough sets for me to get
stronger from because it's a pretty
demanding exercise, right? the heavier
the So, the stronger the athlete, the
heavier the lift, the less total volume
you should be performing, right? So, a
lot of people might think you should be
doing 5x5, right? So, that's a a really
common rep scheme for for strength gain,
5x5. It is, but sometimes, like I'm
doing, this is my second quad session
for the week. I'm doing two. So, I'd
rather go a little bit heavier. So, if I
was to do 5x5, I'd probably have to go
lighter than that. I'd probably get the
third
set. M maybe I could get five sets,
but man, that would take a lot for me to
recover from and it probably wouldn't
allow me to be recovered enough in time
for a heavy squat session next week,
right? So, this is where I'm finding the
balance. Uh especially for me, like I've
been doing this for a while and I know
kind of my sweet spot. So, there's a
rule that you can take with you the
stronger the athlete.
absolute loads I'm talking about. So you
can be really strong and really light
like a lighter weight uh girl for
example weighing 50 kg doing you know
close to double body weight like that
can recover. So even though you know
from a relative strength standpoint like
a pound-for-pound body weight ratio
standpoint the lighter lifter is doing
the same as a heavy lifter because it's
a lower absolute load there's less
muscle less time to recover right so
that's another reason why typically
women who are smaller so smaller women
than than men can usually like a lot of
research support this is women can
handle higher volume than males u but
why so people say uh because women have
different fiber type makeup. So more
slow twitch fiber, a more a higher
percentage of slow twitch fibers than
males who have a higher percentage of
fast twitch fibers on average. What's
the difference? Fast twitch fibers are
stronger, bigger, but take longer time
to recover. So think of a sprinter
versus a marathon runner who has more
slow twitch fibers. Muscles are smaller,
but they last longer and they don't take
as long to recover. So they say that's
one of the reasons why women can handle
more volume than males. However, an
argument that I always say, I'm 100 kg,
you know, and and this is how strong I
am. Um, if you got a woman that was 100
kg lifting with me, lifting that same
amount of weight, I'd make her rest the
same amount of time as me. I wouldn't
worry about her fiber type makeup,
right? There's no way of accurately
testing that anyway, right? So, I say
the absolute load or how much weight
you're lifting is what dictates how much
total volume you're performing. So, the
stronger you are, the more weight you're
lifting, the less total volume you're
performing. as well as the stronger you
are, more weight you're lifting, the
longer your rest should be between sets.
Okay, so that's me for my squats. Now,
it's time for deadlifts. Let's
go. Before I before I do my set, um,
what was I looking for? What was I
looking for? Oh,
there. So, this is one of my favorite
parts about using this rack. Right. So,
now I've unloaded everything and now I
just get out of the way and we're going
to do stiff leged deadlifts. So, a lot
of the times it's hard to deadlift after
your squat because especially after a
quad dominant squat like that, that's
going to make my quadriceps fatigued,
which will reduce my leg drive.
However, the deadlift variation that I'm
using now doesn't use leg drive because
it's a stifflegged deadlift, which means
that I can still have a good
stiff-legged deadlift session, and it's
a good exercise to pair with my quad
dominant squats. That's the weight.
Well, last week I did two sets of eight
on 200 kg. That was my week one. It's
pretty hard because it's high reps. Like
I don't think I want to go to 210. I
think I'll just do a small jump. So 205
maybe uh for two sets of eight.
Hopefully that's not taking me to fail.
So get this right. So my last um I
didn't I haven't done a deadlift. Well,
I hadn't done a deadlift all year. Uh so
what's the date today? It's April, I
don't know,
something like that. It's April 10th.
It's 10th of April. And I hadn't done a
deadlift since December, except
stifflegged deadlift. I did three weeks
of it. Week one, I did 200 for 2x5.
Sorry, 3x5 and then 210 for 3x5 and then
220 for 3x5. And then the next week I
was like, I couldn't be bothered going
up heavy. That was that was limit. So I
let me just try my deadlift max. So I
came in and I deadlifted 300 kg and I
haven't even deadlifted. Like that's a
lot in my opinion. Like for me anyway.
Uh that's a lot. That's triple body
weightight deadlift after not really
practicing deadlift except for the
stifflegged deadlift. Like the heaviest
I've been was a 220 stifflegged
deadlift, right? Except you know the
week before that I squatted 280 kg. So I
know that my body like if I can squat
280 kg, you better believe I can
deadlift that and a little bit more. So
that's why for this it's just a matter
of keeping my hamstrings strong, keeping
my grip strength there and my ability to
like when you start deadlifting heavy.
If you haven't deadlifted for a while,
you got strong legs. Feels strange and
feels heavy in your upper body. So I
think doesn't really matter how heavy I
go with this. It's just a nice
supplementary exercise. Let's have a
look at a few things. Look at my belt,
right? That's the question that you're
wondering. Why is your belt up there,
you big silly? Well, I'll tell you now.
This is where I hold my belt for the
squat. It's kind of like and I push out
against it. But when I bend over
maximally, a lot of the times that
interferes with my bottom position. It
can pinch against my my belly fat and my
and it digs into my ribs. So my solution
to that, which I figured out when I was
fatter, so I used to be I'm 100 kg now.
I used to be 118 and the belt just got
in the way of my deadlifts. So I figured
out this high belt position. I don't
want to say I figured it out. uh my
squat mentor and and not just squat
mentor, Eric Liybridge, holds the belt
in the high position. So that's one
person that I learned it from, but
there's another fellow by the name of
George Leman who's an expert deadlifter.
He has his belt up here. So I tried it
and it's like, oh wow, it's really
comfortable. Right? So this is my
stiff-legged deadlift. Right? So
stifflegged
deadlift.
Okay. I'm doing a dead stop, right? Dead
stop in between each rep. So the
difference between that and RDL is I'm
focusing on the eccentric portion. Okay?
So this is my RDL, right? But then
stifflegged deadlift is up focus. So
bottom up focus, right? And then I
reset. Okay? So that's the difference
between the two. Now this is the
controversial part. A lot of you out
there are going to say,
"No, an RDL is slightly more knee bent
and it's more glutes and a stifflegged
is more stiff leg and it's more
hamstrings." It's
like I think that they're the same
exercise and you can say slightly more
knee bend. So this is the RDL, right?
This is the RDL. So it's the top focus.
So top down focus. This is the RDL.
Right? Now if I bend my knees a little
bit more in the RDL, yeah, I get like a
little bit more knee bend. I get a
little bit more glutes, but it's still
an RDL. Right? So that's how I
differentiate. You can call it what you
like. And that's what's always going to
happen. People have different names for
their exercises, but when I'm doing my
programming, my stiff-legged deadlift,
if I bend my knees more than that, it's
just a conventional deadlift. So, this
is how I differentiate. Today, I'm doing
stiff-legged deadlift, which has a
better carryover. So, for the RDL, it's
good for hypertrophy because it's more
time under tension. We're focusing on
the eccentric portion as well.
Stiff-legged deadlift has a better
carryover to an actual deadlift because
we're still lifting off the floor. Boom.
That's That's how you do it in a
conventional deadlift, minus the drop,
of course. Okay, there's 70 kg. I'm
warm, so I'm going to go up by a red
plate. Huh?
Oh, my
equipment. Yeah, this is my deadlift
jack. It's a good one.
So, that allows me to seamlessly lift
one end so that I can load plates on
there.
That's my favorite type of deadlift
jack. Of course, I've got the other
ones. It's here somewhere, but I just
never use it. I've I've put it away
somewhere. The deadlift bar is longer
and thinner than a normal Olympic bar.
When you use use a regular deadlift
jack, right? It's it's kind of like two
hooks here. And when you lift
it with a really heavy weight, the bar
still bends and it still touches the
ground. So, it kind of it doesn't work
very well. Whereas when you do one side
at a time, you lift all the way to the
edge and you lift the entire thing off
the ground and it's much easier to
load and it's easy to carry
around. You know what I'm going to use
now. So remember with the clips what we
discussed, maybe you don't remember what
we discussed because it's your first
time here. Uh but those clips that I was
using are the they're plastic clips.
These don't well these weigh a couple of
grams but I don't count them. These
weigh 2 and a half kg each. So whenever
I'm doing a um something that's a 5 kg
increment like today the goal is 205
I'll do 200 kilos you know the bar is 20
200 kg and then instead of doing two and
a half on each side I'll just use these
clips which look cleaner. Now my second
warmup weight is 125. Have a quick
drink. Almost run out. I'll make another
drink. See how loose this is? It's not
tight, right? But then when I brace, so
when I brace, it's it's stuck. So that's
how I push out against it. So don't go
too tight with the deadlift belt. Squat,
different story. I go a little bit
tighter for the squat. But for the
deadlift, I like to push out a little
bit more.
Why are you dropping the weight? Uh
because the eccentric portion is
fatiguing. Um and what I try and do when
I'm training for strength is I try and
manage fatigue by training
intelligently. So what does that mean? I
still want to lift heavy. So that's an
important factor for strength training
is you have to lift heavy because
strength training is a skill, right?
Hypertrophy or building muscle, you
don't have to lift as heavy. You just
need to take it closer to failure. So
that's one of the biggest differences,
right? So the problem with lifting heavy
all the time, it's fatiguing, right? So
I want to get lots of practice of
lifting
heavy, but I want to make it as not
fatiguing as possible. So how do I do
that? Just drop the weight. Now, don't
do that at your commercial gym. They're
going to hate you. But this isn't a
commercial gym. This is my
gym. And the floors are made for
dropping weights. So, that's like a
weightlifting gym, weightlifting
platform, proper weightlifting
platforms. You can dump the weights. And
these are bumper plates, which are also
designed for dumping. All right. But if
you do that in a commercial gym,
especially if there's residents above
and below you, they're going to get a
lot of unhappy people. So, don't do
that.
You don't use straps.
You can use straps and a lot of the
times I would um but a bit of laziness
for me for powerlifting competition. I
know I don't compete anymore but still
you're not allowed to use straps in a
powerlifting competition. In a strongman
competition you
are right. So it makes sense for strong
men to use straps. And sometimes like
you're not a bad person if you use
straps um in as a powerlifter. But
something with powerlters you need to
learn how to hold on to that heavy
barbell. So, this is one of my favorite
ways to do that is to just never use
straps for my deadlifts. Um, now,
interestingly, I'm stronger without
straps because that's how I kind of set
up with, you know, my my mind space and
and my routine, you know, the way that I
grab the bar and and drive. When I'm
strapping up, it changes the sequence
for me. And quite often, I lose that
focus. Of course, you get good at
whatever you practice. And if I
practiced it more, of course, using
straps is stronger. Uh but for me it's
easy and this much weight is no
problem. Feet
straight and hip width. Don't go too
wide because if you go too wide, you
have to put your arms on the outside of
that. The wider the grip, the more you
have to travel. I don't want to do that.
So, hip width and arms ideally straight
down, but they have to go on the outside
of your legs, right? And I want to keep
that weight in line with my midoot. So,
if it's too far forward, that's
inefficient. That's weak. And also, if
the bar drifts forward, it means your
lats aren't on. Your lats are
responsible for pulling your shoulders
down, right? So that's why you see a lot
of people, most world records, you see
their shins are bleeding because they
are doing the right thing and engaging
their lats and keeping that bar close to
their midline so that it doesn't drift
away, right?
In a conventional deadlift.
because I'm bending my knees more and
the shins come forward. But in this
lift, actually, they don't touch my
shins at all because I I straighten my
legs and my shins are back the whole
time. But when I'm doing a conventional
deadlift, yeah, they're gently touching
the the my shins are gently touching the
bar for a conventional deadlift. But a
stiff leged deadlift and a Romanian
deadlift, typically they don't. But I
just use these just in case because it
feels gross when they do scrape on your
legs and I don't like, you know, blood
on the bar. It's not hygienic either,
you know.
Um, pretty
tired. Pretty tired. Um, but you know,
it's not heavy. Like, it's hard. It's
always hard. You know what I mean? But
I'm not like because it's this is my
secondary day. I'm using lighter
weights. Still hard, but I know I can do
it. All right, last warm up.
185. Okay.
What's up for this one? 205. All right.
So, that'll be my top weight. I'll go
205 for eight reps. Last week, it was
200 for eight
reps. Yeah, it's a lot of volume. It's
very demand. So, here's the difference
between a stifflegged deadlift and a
conventional deadlift. So, the way that
I do a conventional deadlift, I bend my
knees more and I get more legs. I get
more quads. The more you bend your
knees, the more you use your quads and
the less you use your hamstrings. Now,
conversely, what I'm doing is the less
you bend your knees, the less you use
your quads, the more you use your
hamstrings. So, this is very demanding
on the hamstrings, which is excellent.
Great hamstring developer. Great
hamstring developer. One of my
favorites. It's not a complete hamstring
developer, though. Hamstrings have four
heads, right?
semimebrosinosis, semmitendinosis and
then the biceps which is the short head
and the long head. Now of those the
short head does not cross the hip joint.
So when you do this is a hip extension
exercise. So if all you do is hip
extension exercises like this you are
not training the short head of the
biceps foras. Right? So how do we fix
that? You include knee flexion isolation
exercises. What's a knee flexion
isolation exercise? hamstring curl,
which I did on day one. You know, as you
get more experience, you got to learn
how to stay more disciplined. So, that's
something I'm looking at with my squats.
I'll tell you what would have been easy
for my squats. If you saw the last reps,
it was slow, a bit grindy. It would have
been faster if I went let my hips come
up and I would have um moved a lot
faster on the way up, but instead, I
stayed disciplined and I and I stayed
upright so that I could use my quads.
Um, same goes here, right? Maintaining
neutral. So when I do a conventional
deadlift, I'm not really neutral. My
spine's not that neutral. It's rigid. My
focus is to be as rigid as possible, but
it's kind of like a little bit rounded.
So that's my conventional deadlift. But
because it's a stifflegged deadlift, and
same rule applies for Romanian
deadlifts, I want to maintain
neutral, right? So I don't want that to
happen. It starts getting hard. That is
kind of what happens. Like your back
starts to round a little bit. It's not
that bad. Um, you know, I don't think
it's dangerous for your back for that to
happen. I think it's fine. Unless, of
course, you're like a fishing rod and
you're bending in half like that. That's
not what you're going to see. Um, you're
going to see, you know, like a little
bit of fighting. Totally fine. But the
more disciplined you are, the more rigid
like it'll be harder, but it's like
that's what the fight is going to be to
maintain a neutral spine from start to
finish. So that I'm hitting my target
muscles, which is glutes and hamstrings.
Right? The more I round my back, the
more I hit my back, which is not bad.
Like, I want a strong back, but I'm
doing enough back work. I'm doing easily
enough back work. The focus of this, of
course, it's good for strengthening your
back, but my main focus is your rigid
hip extension to maintain position and
hold position so that I can use my
hamstrings and glutes to do the main
work. So, we're going to go now. Put on
a bit of chalk. Haven't used chalk. I
mean, I don't really need
like it's it's not hugely heavy for me
for my hands, but still I like a bit of
chalk. Kind of makes it so I don't
really have to think about it. Oh, you
know, after eight reps, it's gets
demanding on the grip. It does. You'll
probably see me rearrange my grip
position. Come on.
All
right. It's hard. Like, is there more
reps in the tank? I don't know. Maybe. I
don't care.
Probably that's
hard. One more set. One more set and
then that's just going to be my session.
That's good accessory day.
Two exercises. Yeah, only two exercises,
but both of the exercises are, you know,
performed with a a high
RP. So, you could say that was RP9. And
same with my squats, right? So, how
close to fail should you be training?
Well, every exercise comes with a
different profile, right? So the more
complex a movement like squats and
deadlifts, the more fatiguing it is to
take them to fail. So if you're doing
set after set after set, taking it to
fail or using a high RP can take a long
time to recover from, especially as you
get stronger and stronger. So if I was
to do other exercises, which I could, I
could do hamstring curls after this. I
could do calf raises. I could do 45 or
90°ree hip extensions and do more sets,
take them to failure because they're not
that fatiguing.
But when I'm doing these complex
movements and I'm using, you know, high
intensity or high level of effort, you
know, I'll call that an RPA 9. I don't
know if that's accurate. Like maybe it
was RPA8. Like probably I I probably had
two more reps in the tank if I really
tried, but the technique would have been
ugly. Anyway, whatever. Call it whatever
you want. That was hard. So that's why
two sets of that
plenty. Same with my squats. two sets of
big squats, two sets of big
deadlifts. It's a good workout, you
know. That's a secondary squat day. So
then I'll come in. So if I keep on going
hard and keep doing more sets, it'll
make it hard like on Monday. So what's
today? Say Thursday. Today, Thursday,
Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and then
Monday. So I'll have three days rest.
And then on the fourth day, I'll try and
hit a heavy squat. If I go too hard
today, maybe it'll interfere with my
ability to squat heavy on Monday. So,
that's the idea of the secondary day is
to stimulate, not annihilate. Anyway,
I'm going to do one more set. Um, but
that was a great session. Um, if you
liked what you saw, follow along for the
next session cuz there's just going to
be plenty of this. And I'm trying to
provide you guys as much value as
possible. Copy my stuff. It's yours. If
you like my techniques, use it. If you
don't know who I am, I've coached some
of the strongest athletes in the world,
including the strongest man in the
world, Half Thor Bjönson. And I coached
him to deadlift 501 kg conventional. So,
I know I'm going to get the Eddie fans
in there saying whatever it is. Good. He
deadlifted 51 kg. He holds a world
record. Put comments
in. It's good for my algorithm. Uh, but
anyway, that's who I've coached and
these are the techniques. This is how I
train to coach those people amongst many
others. And I'm pretty strong myself. So
if you like my methods, they're yours.
You're welcome. It took me many years of
study, many years of training hard, many
years of working with so many coaches
and athletes and academics to learn all
of this stuff so that you don't have to.
You can just learn it from me. It's
yours. You're welcome. I ask you for
nothing in return except for show me
some love.
Subscribe, like, comment, and I'll see
you next